\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename /Users/cclark/emacs/cfclrk/straight/repos/setenv-file/doc/setenv-file.info
@settitle setenv-file
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@finalout
@titlepage
@title setenv-file
@author Chris Clark
@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top setenv-file

Set or unset environment variables from an "env" or dotenv file.

This package provides two interactive functions:

@enumerate
@item
@samp{setenv-file}: Set all the environment variables defined in an env file.
@item
@samp{setenv-file-unset}: Unset all the environment variables defined in an env
file.
@end enumerate

When used interactively, each function prompts for a file. By default, the
prompt begins at @samp{setenv-file-dir}.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Usage::
* File Format::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Usage

* Usage from Elisp::
* Usage from org-mode::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Usage
@chapter Usage

Start by creating an env file in @samp{setenv-file-dir} (by default, @samp{~/.env/}).
For example, create this file in @samp{~/.env/foo}:

@example
FOO=~/foo
BAR=$FOO/bar
ОФИС=ДОМ
BAZ=nosubst:FOO$BAR
@end example

Now, you can run:

@itemize
@item
@samp{M-x setenv-file}, which will prompt you for a file. All
the environment variables defined in the file will be @strong{set}.
@item
@samp{C-u M-x setenv-file}, which will prompt you for a file. All
the environment variables defined in the file will be @strong{unset}.
@end itemize

@menu
* Usage from Elisp::
* Usage from org-mode::
@end menu

@node Usage from Elisp
@section Usage from Elisp

To set env variables defined in @samp{~/.env/foo}:

@lisp
(setenv-file (expand-file-name "~/.env/foo"))
@end lisp

Or, if you have a string instead of a file:

@lisp
(setenv-file-str "FOO=foo\nBAR=bar")
@end lisp

@node Usage from org-mode
@section Usage from org-mode

The example below shows a convenient way to declare and set environment
variables in an @samp{org} document:

@example
#+NAME: env
| Var  | Value           |
|------+-----------------|
| FOO  | ~/foo           |
| BAR  | $FOO/bar        |
| ОФИС | ДОМ             |
| BAZ  | nosubst:FOO$BAR |

#+begin_src emacs-lisp :var env=env
  (setenv-file-set-pairs env)
#+end_src
@end example

@node File Format
@chapter File Format

Each line in the file should be in a @samp{KEY=VALUE} format, with one entry per
line. This package does not invoke a shell to interpret the file, so most
shell-isms will not work. However, the env file may:

@itemize
@item
Use existing environment variables
@item
Define an environment variable and use it in successive lines
@item
A @samp{~} is expanded if it is the first character in the value
@end itemize

@bye